# Exoplanet-Detection-Model

As our search to find life beyond earth continues, one of the places where life can emerge is on other planets outside of our solar system, these planets are called Extrasolar Planets or Exoplanets. As technology and detection techniques continue to develop, more exoplanets are being discovered every year. One of the techniques that is used to identify the presence of exoplanets around a star is called the radial velocity method, where the periodic shift in a star's radial velocity may suggest the presence of an orbiting planet. When a planet orbits a star, both the star and the planet feel the attractive force of gravity that each body exerts on eachother, leading them to orbit a common center of gravity. Since a star is typically more massive than a planet, the star's movements due to this force will be much less significant compared to that of the planet, which will experience a much greater movement as it has a much smaller mass compared to the star. However, with precise instruments, the difference in radial velocity of the star due to the presence of a planet can be determined.

In cases where there are multiple planets orbiting the same star, the difference in radial velocity of a star is the cumulative effect of all of the exoplanets orbiting the star. Therefore, to isolate each individual planets’ effect on the star, the observed radial velocity of a star must be broken down into multiple curves, each representing the change in the star's radial velocity due to one of the orbiting planets. This is done using the Fourier transform.

In general terms, the fourier transform is the decomposition of a function into the sinusoidal waves that compose it. It has been proven that any function can be split up into a certain set of sine and cosine waves. To accomplish this, there are complex mathematical functions used. However, programming languages such as python have libraries containing developed functions that automatically output the result of the transform if given the input data. In the context of stars and their exoplanets, the oscillations of the stars' total radial velocity fluctuations can be modeled as a set of sine waves. As such, if the radial velocity can be fourier transformed, the sine waves that compose the total radial velocity can be obtained and will correspond to different exoplanets. Finally, the amplitude and frequency of the isolated radial velocity curves can be used to gather more information on the exoplanet itself, such as its period of rotation and establish limits on its mass. Since the observed difference of the star is due to radial velocity, and the stay may experience movements tangentially, without knowing the inclination angle of the star system, only a lower limit of the mass can be determined for each exoplanet.

In our case, we are analyzing the differential radial velocity of the star HD 69830 in our galaxy, which has the presence of 3 Neptune-like exoplanets forming an extrasolar planetary system. In this project we analyze the validity of Fast Fourier Transforms on non-uniform data by establishing the lower limit on the masses of exoplanets orbiting a star, given the radial velocity of the star and the periods of revolution of the respective exoplanets.
